### [Home Page](/index.md)
What do you think the world might be perceived as in the next couple hundred years? Would it be a dystopian world where everything is automated, or would it be completely different? I for one really enjoy the movie Wall-E because it helps convey the idea that this "dystopian world" might be closer than one could truly imagine.

Within the movie Wall-E, you see hundreds of variations of artificial intelligence, all with their purpose. You can take the two main characters Eve and Wall-E for example, Eve, whose full name stood for Extraterrestrial Vegetation Evaluator was created as an AI whose purpose is to scout the earth in intervals to check for a plant because a plant means that there is a form of suitable living on the planet. On the other hand, Wall-E was created as a series of garbage compactors that would attempt to clean up all the trash on planet Earth by making it into compact cubes and stacking them for sorting and future maintenance. This can also go hand in hand with why I love this move, as this shows the route that we as humans might be taking by overpolluting our planet. Auto is also another example of artificial intelligence. He's created to control the ship as an automated system; However, Auto does receive a classified mission by the current president stating that they shouldn't return to Earth since it's become too inhabitable making it worth just residing within space. Due to this, Auto, an AI, even manages to go as far as to resist and defy the captain's orders to return to Earth regardless of new signs and conditions.

As Artificial intelligence rises, so do the questions of ethics. Many ethical questions might be taken into consideration. Some of these ethical dilemmas could be the responses of robots in certain parts of the movie such as the portions when Auto would try to rid of the plant whilst other robots would support trying to get the plant to its destination. This shows how these robots react to what's right almost as if they were sentient and sticking to what they believe is correct. This can relate very well to real-world AI ethics such as Chat GPT, which learns from us as people all around the world and feeds it data to respond the way it does.

In the spaceship assigned to carry the last humans for generations to come, you can see a clear relationship between them and the robots. The robots are assigned to maintain the ship as well as serve the humans with whatever they may need; However, later in the movie, the robots and humans start to grow a better connection such as with Wall-E gaining the respect of other humans and Eve having a more sentient bond with Wall-E. This can show the potential connection between humans and AI by further emphasizing the connections that humans already have to AI. An example of this can be the way that people rely on their Alexas or Siris to tell them about the weather or current world news. 

After all of this, one question remains, what will the future of AI in human society be? Something like this can be well questioned throughout the movie as it emphasizes that as time went on, humans started to get lazy which made them all rely on the services of their robots and personal machines. Realistically speaking, this means that AI has become advanced enough to rely on them; However, this also means that we as humans have become more incapable of surviving on our own without them. This can also relate to our current trajectory as new advancements are always made and humans have become far more reliant on AI. For example, with Tesla's Automated driving cars, humans were able to rely more on not paying attention to the road which shows the current trajectory of our world.